PHOTOVAULT 0.3.0
RELEASE NOTES

This is release 0.3.0 of Photovault, a cross-platform Java based image 
archiving application for photographers. 0.3.0 is a feature release that
adds lots of new functionality to Photovault, including support for
arbitrary rotation and cropping of images, improved export functionality
as well as speed and usability improvements.

MAIN CHANGES IN PHOTOVAULT 0.3.0

New features
- Arbitrary cropping and rotating of images. As all Photovault operations,
  the original image is always preserved and the operations are only
  applied when wieving/exporting the image.
- Improved exporting of multiple images at once
- Possibility to freely set resolution of exported images
- Sorting of viewed images by shooting time, shooting place or quality
- Visual icons for indicating image quality setting in thumbnail view
- Toolbar & menu icons
- Improved performance when indexing external volumes

MAIN CHANGES IN PHOTOVAULT 0.2
- Support for external volumes
- Shortcut keys for moving between images in the same folder
- Use launch4j for starting Photovault (instead if NSIS)

BACKWARDS COMPATIBILITY
Photovault 0.3.0 database format is compatible with 0.2.0. However,
Photovault 0.2 cannot correctly display cropped or rotated images.

Photovault converts automatically databases created with versions prior to
0.2.0 to the new format. Using Photovault 0.1.x after the conversion is
not recommended.

SUPPORTED OPERATING SYSTEMS
Photovault has been tested in Linux and Windows XP and it should work
in all environments supported by Java SE.Specifically, there are some 
compatibility problems in MacOS X (e.g. importing images form network
drive does not work) - these will be addressed in future release.

REQUIRED SOFTWARE
Photovault needs Sun Java JRE 1.4.2 or newer and Java Advanced Imaging 
libraries to work. You can download both from Sun web site.

Photovault can use either Apache Derby or MySQL as metadata
store. Derby is included in this release; if you want to use MySQL
instead you need to download it from www.mysql.com.

INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS
Briefly:
- Install Java from http://java.com/getjava 
- Install Java Advanced Imaging from 
  http://java.sun.com/products/java-media/jai/downloads/download-1_1_2_01.html
- Install Photovault
- Start Photovault and set database name & directory as the program asks for 
  them

See http://www.photovault.org/guide/install.html for full installation
instructions.

KNOWN ISSUES
- Some unit test cases do not pass due to unimplemented features and
  errors in Apache OJB version used in Photovault.

FEEDBACK & SUPPORT
For feedback and support please send e-mail to pvault-users@sourceforge.net 
or directly to author (harri@photovault.org)
